Add migration phases pages (#8828)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _migrations/migration-phases/migrating-metadata.md

---
layout: default
title: Migrating metadata
nav_order: 85
parent: Migration phases
---

# Migrating metadata

Metadata migration involves creating a snapshot of you cluster than migrating the metadata from the snapshot using the Migration Console. 

> This tool gathers information from a source cluster, through a snapshot or through HTTP requests against the source cluster.  These snapshots are fully compatible with the backfill process for Reindex-From-Snapshot (RFS) scenarios.

Author: ```suggestion
This tool gathers information from a source cluster, through a snapshot or through HTTP requests against the source cluster. These snapshots are fully compatible with the backfill process for `Reindex-From-Snapshot` (RFS) scenarios.
```

> After collecting information on the source cluster comparisons are made on the target cluster.  If running a migration, any metadata items do not already exist will be created on the target cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
After collecting information on the source cluster comparisons are made on the target cluster. If running a migration, any metadata items do not already exist will be created on the target cluster.
```

## Creating the snapshot

Creating a snapshot of the source cluster capture all the metadata and documents to migrate onto a new target cluster.

Create the initial snapshot on the source cluster with the following command:

```shell
console snapshot create
```

To check the progress of the snapshot in real-time, use the following command:

```shell
console snapshot status --deep-check
```

You should receive the following response when the snapshot is created:

```shell
SUCCESS
Snapshot is SUCCESS.
Percent completed: 100.00%
Data GiB done: 29.211/29.211
Total shards: 40
Successful shards: 40
Failed shards: 0
Start time: 2024-07-22 18:21:42
Duration: 0h 13m 4s
Anticipated duration remaining: 0h 0m 0s
Throughput: 38.13 MiB/sec
```

### Limitations

> Incremental or "delta" snapshots are not yet supported. For more information, refer to the [tracking issue MIGRATIONS-1624](https://opensearch.atlassian.net/browse/MIGRATIONS-1624). A single snapshot must be used for a backfill.

Reviewer: Lets remove this section, it isn't meaningful in this context.

tail /shared-logs-output/migration-console-default/*/metadata/*.log
```

### Warnings and errors

When encountering `WARN` or `ERROR` elements in the response, they will be accompanied by a short message, such as `WARN - my_index already exists`. More information can be found in the detailed logs associated with the warning or error.

### OpenSearch running in compatibility mode

> There might be an error about being unable to update an ES 7.10.2 cluster, this can occur when compatibility mode has been enabled on an OpenSearch cluster please disable it to continue, see [Enable compatibility mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/rename.html#rename-upgrade).

Author: ```suggestion
There might be an error about being unable to update an ES 7.10.2 cluster, this can occur when compatibility mode has been enabled on an OpenSearch cluster disable it to continue, see [Enable compatibility mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/rename.html#rename-upgrade).
```

tail /shared-logs-output/migration-console-default/*/metadata/*.log
```

### Warnings and errors

When encountering `WARN` or `ERROR` elements in the response, they will be accompanied by a short message, such as `WARN - my_index already exists`.  Full information will be in the detailed logs associated with this warning or error.

### OpenSearch running in compatibility mode
There might be an error about being unable to update an ES 7.10.2 cluster, this can occur when compatibility mode has been enabled on an OpenSearch cluster please disable it to continue, see [Enable compatibility mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/rename.html#rename-upgrade) ↗.

### Breaking change compatibility

> Metadata migration needs to modify data from the source to the target versions to recreate items. Sometimes these features are no longer supported and have been removed from the target version. Sometimes these features are not available on the target version, which is especially true when downgrading. While this tool is meant to make this process easier, it is not exhaustive in its support. When encountering a compatibility issue or an important feature gap for your migration, [search the issues](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues) or [create a new](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues/new/choose) issue if one cannot be found.

Author: ```suggestion
Metadata migration needs to modify data from the source to the target versions to recreate items. Sometimes these features are no longer supported and have been removed from the target version. Sometimes these features are not available on the target version, which is especially true when downgrading. While this tool is meant to make this process easier, it is not exhaustive in its support. When encountering a compatibility issue or an important feature gap for your migration, [search the issues and comment on the existing issue](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues) or [create a new](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues/new/choose) issue if one cannot be found.
```

tail /shared-logs-output/migration-console-default/*/metadata/*.log
```

> ### Warnings/errors inline

Author: ```suggestion
### Warnings and errors
```

> There might be `WARN` or `ERROR` elements inline the output, they will be accompanied by a short message, such as `WARN - my_index already exists`.  Full information will be in the detailed logs associated with this warnings or errors.

Author: ```suggestion
When encountering `WARN` or `ERROR` elements in the response, they will be accompanied by a short message, such as `WARN - my_index already exists`.  Full information will be in the detailed logs associated with this warning or error.
```

### OpenSearch running in compatibility mode
There might be an error about being unable to update an ES 7.10.2 cluster, this can occur when compatibility mode has been enabled on an OpenSearch cluster please disable it to continue, see [Enable compatibility mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/rename.html#rename-upgrade) ↗.

### Breaking change compatibility

> Metadata migration needs to modify data from the source to the target versions to recreate items.  Sometimes these features are no longer supported and have been removed from the target version.  Sometimes these features are not available on the target version, which is especially true when downgrading.  While this tool is meant to make this process easier, it is not exhaustive in its support.  When encountering a compatibility issue or an important feature gap for your migration, [search the issues](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues) or [create a new](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues/new/choose) issue if one cannot be found.

Author: ```suggestion
Metadata migration needs to modify data from the source to the target versions to recreate items. Sometimes these features are no longer supported and have been removed from the target version. Sometimes these features are not available on the target version, which is especially true when downgrading. While this tool is meant to make this process easier, it is not exhaustive in its support. When encountering a compatibility issue or an important feature gap for your migration, [search the issues](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues) or [create a new](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues/new/choose) issue if one cannot be found.
```

> Metadata migration needs to modify data from the source to the target versions to recreate items. Sometimes these features are no longer supported and have been removed from the target version. Sometimes these features are not available on the target version, which is especially true when downgrading. While this tool is meant to make this process easier, it is not exhaustive in its support. When encountering a compatibility issue or an important feature gap for your migration, [search the issues](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues) or [create a new](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-migrations/issues/new/choose) issue if one cannot be found.

Reviewer: I feel like the call to action prompt for some kind of update on the github issue,
- Search the issues and comment/upvote the existing issue
- VS Create a new issue
